# Making the installer for earlier versions of macOS
#### High Sierra 10.13 to Catalina 10.15

If you can't use Big Sur but need macOS High Sierra 10.13, Mojave 10.14, or Catalina 10.15, you can make a **full** installer (which enables you to not have to be connected to the internet at install time.)  
**This guide works on any version of macOS following this guide**:

Upgrading to High Sierra 10.13 **requires OS X Lion 10.7.5 up to Sierra 10.12.6.**   
Upgrading to Mojave 10.14 **requires OS X Mountain Lion 10.8 up to High Sierra 10.13.6.**  
Upgrading to Catalina 10.15 **requires OS X Mavericks 10.9 up to Mojave 10.14.6.**  

All you need are the following:

* A 8GB flash drive
* An internet connection

## 1. Aquiring the installer

You may notice that you can't exactly take a trip to the App Store and download these versions anymore, because Big Sur has replaced them. To get them, **go to this <a href="https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT211683">Apple Support</a> page and select the version you want** to open the App Store link.

## 2. Preparing to flash


Once it's downloaded, it will most likely open itself up. Because we want to make an installer, we can hit **Install macOS > Quit** in the menu bar.

Now, **open up Disk Utility** and hit the View Options button in the top left corner of the window. In that dropdown, select **Show All Devices**. Then, **find your USB** in the sidebar and select the root of it (not the partitions in it!) and select Erase. **Use Mac OS Extended (Journaled)** because the installer can't be booted from APFS drives.


## 3. Making the USB


Once that's all set, **open a new Terminal** session and type in the following command, depending on your downloaded OS version, where **yourvolume is your USB's new name** (if you chose more than one word for the name, put a \ and space before starting to type the second word.):

Catalina 10.15:  
`sudo /Applications/Install\ macOS\ Catalina.app/Contents/Resources/createinstallmedia --volume /Volumes/yourvolume`  
Mojave 10.14:  
`sudo /Applications/Install\ macOS\ Mojave.app/Contents/Resources/createinstallmedia --volume /Volumes/yourvolume`  
High Sierra 10.13:  
`sudo /Applications/Install\ macOS\ High\ Sierra.app/Contents/Resources/createinstallmedia --volume /Volumes/yourvolume`  

Once this is completed, you can safely remove your fresh new macOS Big Sur Installer USB. This one is **full** and does not require you to have an internet connection when installing macOS.


## 4. Next steps

If you need new kexts for Big Sur but are like me and don't want to accidently delete your current OS in case something goes wrong, you can **copy your current EFI folder** to the USB's EFI partition and use that to test. If a kext doesn't work with the OS release you selected, check out **kext.me**, a nice catalog of kexts, bootloaders, and guides for you to enjoy.
